README.md, before:

# bs4_web_scraper

### __A web scraper based on the BeautifulSoup4 library with translation capabilities.__


## Dependencies

- Python 3.11
- beautifulsoup4
- translators
- requests
- lxml
- html5lib
- pyyaml
- toml


## Setup

1. Make sure you have python3 installed on your local machine.
2. Clone the repository to local machine into your project directory.
3. Change directory into the repository "bs4_web_scraper" and `pip install -r requirements.txt`. You're ready to go if the installations were successful.
4. For a quick demo, run `example.py`.


## Features

- [x] Web scraping
- [x] Translation
- [x] Saving scraped data to a file
- [x] Downloading data to a file
- [x] Logging the scraping process


## Usage

Before using the scraper, make sure you have an internet connection. The scraper uses the internet to scrape web pages and translate scraped data.

### Importing the module

```python

from bs4_web_scraper import BS4WebScraper

```

### Creating a scraper object

The following example shows how to instantiate and customize the scraper's settings. The default settings are used if no parameters are passed to the scraper object.

```python

# Here, the scraper object is created with the default settings
bs4_scraper = BS4WebScraper()

# To customize the scraper's settings, pass a dictionary of the preferred instantiation parameters to the scraper object.
params = {
    "parser": "html.parser",
    "html_filename": "base.html",
    "log_filepath": "./scrape_log/log.txt",
    "no_of_requests_before_pause": 30, # This should not exceed 50 to avoid high frequency requests. The upper limit is 100
    "scrape_session_pause_duration": 20, # pause duration in seconds. It is advisable to leave this at its default, "auto".
    "max_no_of_retries": 5,
    "base_storage_dir": "./scraped_data",
    "storage_path": ".",
    "translation_engine": "bing",
    
}

bs4_scraper = BS4WebScraper(**params)

```

### Instantiation parameters

To read more about the instantiation parameters and class attributes, run the following command:

```python

>>> help(BS4WebScraper)

```


### Scraping a web page

Most web scraping tasks can be done using the `scrape` method. Below is an example of how to scrape a web site.

```python

# Scraping google.com
bs4_scraper.scrape(url="https://www.google.com", scrape_depth=0)

```

In the above example, the `scrape_depth` parameter is set to 0. This means that the scraper will only scrape the web page at the given url. If the `scrape_depth` parameter is set to 1, the scraper will scrape the web page at the given url and all the web pages linked to it. If the `scrape_depth` parameter is set to 2, the scraper will scrape the web page at the given url and all the web pages linked to it and all the web pages linked to the web pages linked to it and so on.



### Translating scraped data

To translate the scraped data, set the `translate_to` parameter to the language you want to translate to. The following example shows how to translate the scraped data to French. The translation is done using the translation engine specified in the instantiation parameters. The default translation engine is "google" (Google Translate). To change the translation engine, set the `translation_engine` parameter or attribute to the preferred translation engine. The following example shows how to translate the scraped data to French using the Bing translation engine.

```python

# Scraping a web page and translating the scraped data to French (during instantiation)
bs4_scraper = BS4WebScraper(..., translation_engine="bing")
# or (after instantiation)
bs4_scraper.translation_engine = "bing"

bs4_scraper.scrape(url="https://www.google.com", scrape_depth=0, translate_to="fr")

```

To get a list of available translation engines you can use, do the following:

```python

from bs4_web_scraper.scripts.help import available_translation_engines

print(available_translation_engines)

```

Translation of the web pages is done immediately after scraping. The `translate_to` parameter is set to "fr" in the above example. This means that the scraped data will be translated to French. The `translate_to` parameter can be set to any of the languages supported by the scraper's translation engine.

To get a list of the languages supported by the scraper's translation engine, do:

```python

print(bs4_scraper.translator.supported_languages)

```


### Scraping web sites or pages that require authentication

To scrape websites or pages that require authentication, you can pass the `credentials` parameter to the `scrape` method.The following example shows how to scrape a web page that requires authentication.

```python

# Scraping a web page that requires authentication
credentials = {
    'auth_url': 'https://www.websitewithauth.com/login_path/',
    'auth_username_field': 'usernamefieldname',
    'auth_password_field': 'passwordfieldname',
    'auth_username': 'yourusername',
    'auth_password': 'yourpassword',
}

bs4_scraper.scrape(url="https://www.websitewithauth.com", scrape_depth=0, credentials=credentials)

```

You can also authenticate the scraper before scraping by passing the `credentials` parameter to the `authenticate` method. The following example shows how to authenticate the scraper before scraping.

```python

# Authenticating the scraper before scraping
bs4_scraper.authenticate(credentials=credentials)
bs4_scraper.scrape(url="https://www.websitewithauth.com", scrape_depth=0)

# or in the case of downloading data from a web page that requires authentication
bs4_scraper.authenticate(credentials=credentials)
bs4_scraper.download_url(url="https://www.websitewithauth.com/download/example.mp4", save_as="example.mp4", save_to="downloads")

# run help(bs4_scraper.downloaded_url) for more information on the download_url method

```

NOTE: `credentials` should always take the form of a dictionary with the following keys: `auth_url`, `auth_username_field`, `auth_password_field`, `auth_username`, `auth_password`.

To get a quick template for the `credentials` dictionary, do:

```python

from bs4_web_scraper.scripts.help import bs4_credentials_template

print(bs4_credentials_template)

```


### Other useful methods

The following methods are useful for scraping web page data.

- `download_url`
- `download_urls`
- `get_links`
- `get_styles`
- `get_scripts`
- `get_videos`
- `get_images`
- `get_audios`
- `get_fonts`

For information on how to use these methods, do:

```python

>>> help(method_name)

```

### Other utility classes included in the module

- `Translator`
- `FileHandler`
- `Logger`
- `RequestLimitSetting`

For information on how to use these classes, do:

```python

from bs4_web_scraper.scripts.utils import class_name

>>> help(class_name)

```

### Credits

- [Beautiful Soup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/)
- [Requests](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/master/)
- [Translators](https://pypi.org/project/translators/)


### Contributors and feedbacks are welcome. For feedbacks, please open an issue or contact me at tioluwa.dev@gmail.com or on twitter [@ti_oluwa_](https://twitter.com/ti_oluwa_)

### To contribute, please fork the repo and submit a pull request

### If you find this module useful, please consider giving it a star. Thanks!

Commit message:

Rearranged file structure. Modularized code. Fixed some bugs. Add new methods to classes. Thers is still a bug and a performance issue needing a fix.

README.md, after:

# bs4_web_scraper

### __A web scraper based on the BeautifulSoup4 library with translation capabilities.__


## Dependencies

- Python 3.11
- beautifulsoup4
- translators
- requests
- lxml
- html5lib
- pyyaml
- toml


## Setup

1. Make sure you have python3 installed on your local machine.
2. Clone the repository to local machine into your project directory.
3. Change directory into the repository "bs4_web_scraper" and `pip install -r requirements.txt`. You're ready to go if the installations were successful.
4. For a quick demo, run `example.py`.


## Features

* Web scraping
* Translation
* Saving scraped data to a file
* Downloading data to a file
* Logging the scraping process


## Usage

Before using the scraper, make sure you have an internet connection. The scraper uses the internet to scrape web pages and translate scraped data.

### Importing the module

```python

from bs4_web_scraper.scraper import BS4WebScraper

```

### Creating a scraper object

The following example shows how to instantiate and customize the scraper's settings. The default settings are used if no parameters are passed to the scraper object.

```python

# Here, the scraper object is created with the default settings
bs4_scraper = BS4WebScraper()

# To customize the scraper's settings, pass a dictionary of the preferred instantiation parameters to the scraper object.
params = {
    "parser": "html.parser",
    "html_filename": "base.html",
    "log_filepath": "./scrape_log/log.txt",
    "no_of_requests_before_pause": 30, # This should not exceed 50 to avoid high frequency requests. The upper limit is 100
    "scrape_session_pause_duration": 20, # pause duration in seconds. It is advisable to leave this at its default, "auto".
    "max_no_of_retries": 5,
    "base_storage_dir": "./scraped_data",
    "storage_path": ".",
    "translation_engine": "bing",
    
}

bs4_scraper = BS4WebScraper(**params)

```

### Instantiation parameters

To read more about the instantiation parameters and class attributes, run the following command:

```python
>>> print(BS4WebScraper.__doc__)

```


### Scraping a web page

Most web scraping tasks can be done using the `scrape` method. Below is an example of how to scrape a web site.

```python

# Scraping google.com
bs4_scraper.scrape(url="https://www.google.com", scrape_depth=0)

```

In the above example, the `scrape_depth` parameter is set to 0. This means that the scraper will only scrape the web page at the given url. If the `scrape_depth` parameter is set to 1, the scraper will scrape the web page at the given url and all the web pages linked to it. If the `scrape_depth` parameter is set to 2, the scraper will scrape the web page at the given url and all the web pages linked to it and all the web pages linked to the web pages linked to it and so on.



### Translating scraped data

To translate the scraped data, set the `translate_to` parameter to the language you want to translate to. The following example shows how to translate the scraped data to French. The translation is done using the translation engine specified in the instantiation parameters. The default translation engine is "google" (Google Translate). To change the translation engine, set the `translation_engine` parameter or attribute to the preferred translation engine. The following example shows how to translate the scraped data to French using the Bing translation engine.

```python

# Scraping a web page and translating the scraped data to French (during instantiation)
bs4_scraper = BS4WebScraper(..., translation_engine="bing")
# or (after instantiation)
bs4_scraper.translation_engine = "bing"

bs4_scraper.scrape(url="https://www.google.com", scrape_depth=0, translate_to="fr")

```

To get a list of available translation engines you can use, do the following:

```python
from bs4_web_scraper import translate

# INTERNET CONNECTION REQUIRED
print(translate.translation_engines)

```

Translation of the web pages is done immediately after scraping. The `translate_to` parameter is set to "fr" in the above example. This means that the scraped data will be translated to French. The `translate_to` parameter can be set to any of the languages supported by the scraper's translation engine.

To get a list of the languages supported by the scraper's translation engine, do:

```python

print(bs4_scraper.translator.supported_languages)

```


### Scraping web sites or pages that require authentication

To scrape websites or pages that require authentication, you can pass the `credentials` parameter to the `scrape` method.The following example shows how to scrape a web page that requires authentication.

```python

# Scraping a web page that requires authentication
credentials = {
    'auth_url': 'https://www.websitewithauth.com/login_path/',
    'auth_username_field': 'usernamefieldname',
    'auth_password_field': 'passwordfieldname',
    'auth_username': 'yourusername',
    'auth_password': 'yourpassword',
}

bs4_scraper.scrape(url="https://www.websitewithauth.com", scrape_depth=0, credentials=credentials)

```

You can also authenticate the scraper before scraping by passing the `credentials` parameter to the `authenticate` method. The following example shows how to authenticate the scraper before scraping.

```python

# Authenticating the scraper before scraping
bs4_scraper.authenticate(credentials=credentials)
bs4_scraper.scrape(url="https://www.websitewithauth.com", scrape_depth=0)

# or in the case of downloading data from a web page that requires authentication
bs4_scraper.authenticate(credentials=credentials)
bs4_scraper.download_url(url="https://www.websitewithauth.com/download/example.mp4", save_as="example.mp4", save_to="downloads")

# run help(bs4_scraper.downloaded_url) for more information on the download_url method

```

NOTE: `credentials` should always take the form of a dictionary with the following keys: `auth_url`, `auth_username_field`, `auth_password_field`, `auth_username`, `auth_password`.

To get a quick template for the `credentials` dictionary, do:

```python

import bs4_web_scraper

print(bs4_web_scraper.credentials_template)

```

### Other useful methods

The following are some useful methods for scraping web data using the scraper class.

- `download_url`
- `download_urls`
- `get_all`
- `get_links`
- `get_styles`
- `get_scripts`
- `get_videos`
- `get_images`
- `get_audios`
- `get_fonts`

For information on how to use these methods, do:

```python

>>> help(bs4_scraper.<method_name>)

```

### Other utility classes included in the module

- `Translator`
- `FileHandler`
- `Logger`
- `RequestLimitSetting`

For information on how to use these classes, do:

```python
from bs4_web_scraper.<module_name> import <class_name>

>>> help(<class_name>)

```

### Credits

- [Beautiful Soup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/)
- [Requests](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/master/)
- [Translators](https://pypi.org/project/translators/)


#### Contributors and feedbacks are welcome. For feedbacks, please open an issue or contact me at tioluwa.dev@gmail.com or on twitter [@ti_oluwa_](https://twitter.com/ti_oluwa_)

#### To contribute, please fork the repo and submit a pull request

#### If you find this module useful, please consider giving it a star. Thanks!
